We also said that when we use ser or estar with an adjective plus que, so for example, es relevante que it's relevant that.
Esta bien que it's okay that.
We will follow this up with the mood tense.
So how would you say for example, it's not very relevant.
that they found it.
It's not very relevant that they found it, for example.
So how is it's not very relevant?
No es muy relevante.
Good that they found it.
Lo encontraran.
Good.
Noes muy relevante que lo encontraran.
So here we're not starting with the past, are we?
Noes muy relevante.
That's the present.
But after care we refer back to the past, so we can use the past mood tense.
In the same way, we could use the present mood tense.
We could say it's not very relevant that they find it, that they might find it.
using the present mood tense so how would that sound no es muy relevante que lo encuentren que lo encuentren good
How would you say it wasn't very relevant?
Now the line, we can use the line in the past here, from ser is irregular.
But we can remember the word era in English.
To remember this line in the past from Sir, because a line in the past is an era, and if we pronounce era as if
If it was Spanish, we get era.
Era.
And that's the line in the past from ser.
So how would you say it was very relevant?
Good.
It was very relevant that they found it.
Era muy relevante que lo encontraron.
Good.
So we want to identify the structures.
that allow us to use the mood tense other than to use the mood tense correctly to also avoid it sometimes
No?
So imagine you're having a conversation and you just want to get the meaning across and the point across and maybe you don't want to worry in that moment about finding the mood tense.
You just have something you need to say and you will worry about it later how how it would be with the moot tense.
So we can play around with the structure as we did
For example, with Volvia Llamarte para organizar, I called you again to organize, instead of Volvia Llamarte para que organizáramos, I called you again so that we organized.
Like we did there, we can play around a little bit with the structure to avoid using the mood tense.
So for example, instead of saying es importante que, we could also say the important thing is that.
And when we say the important thing is that, what we end up with is Ske.
So we said that we have a useful structure that we can use to give this the important thing.
So instead of saying la cosa importante, which would be a literal translation of the important thing, how can we make that structure using law?
To say lo importante?
Yes.
Lo importante.
Good.
So we said that instead of saying literally the important thing, you can just use lo.
With any adjective and you get this idea of the important thing, lo importante, the important thing, lo increíble.
The incredible thing.
Lo es spectacular the spectacular thing.
Esque and then after that esque you don't need any mood tense
So incredible is increíble, slightly different in Spanish than in English.
We don't have the D.
And we can actually see where incredible comes from.
To believe in Spanish was creer
And creible would be believable.
And incredible is unbelievable.
So incredible actually means unbelievable.
Incredible.
So first if we say it's incredible, that
then we will want the mood tense.
So it's incredible that they come back that they return.
What was to return?
Volver.
Volver, good.
So it's incredible that they return, that they come back
Es increíble que vuelvan.
Good.
But if you wanted to avoid going through that, you could just say the incredible thing is that they come back.
And then you don't need the mood tense.
So the incredible thing is that they return.
Good.
Lo incredible is kewelven.
The incredible thing is that they come back.
How you say the incredible thing is that they do it again and we will use the structure with Volver to say again.
So the incredible thing is that they return to do it.
What was to do or to make?
Good.
The incredible thing is that they do it again.
The incredible thing is that they return to do it
Lo increíble es que vuelven a hacerlo.
Very good.
The incredible thing is that they do it again.
But what if you were to say it is incredible that they do it again?
It's incredible that vuelvan a hacerlo.
Very good.
It's increíble que vuelvan a hacerlo.
And how would you say?
It's incredible that they did it again.
It's incredible that they returned to do it.
Es increíble que volvieron, volvieran, volvieran a
Very good, well done.